So let's open back up our Kata machine.
Let's navigate down to
compare binary trees.
Again, we're doing a recursive search.
So what have I told you multiple times?
Probably create your own function.
But let's see how this one looks.
[SOUND] The signature,
this one actually matches up with
what you'd want to do in recursion.
So I'm just gonna keep this.
I know I'm breaking from tradition,
but this makes sense.
So let's look at our signature for
a second.
I kinda gave away the game a bit here,
so just be okay with that.
Our signature is a.
It can either be a BinaryNode or null.
b can either be a BinaryNode or null.
So what's our base case?
Well, there's actually a few of them.
There's actually a few base cases.
So what do you think
base case number 1 is?
How do we know at this point we
are either equivalent or not equivalent?
The easiest one to think
of is if a equals null,
and b equals null, right?
If they're both null,
we are currently equal, right?
This is a good place to be.
At this point with inter traversal,
we are equal and we can say that.
We don't have to solve for
the entire tree.
That's what all of
recursion combined is for.
But at this one moment in time, we can
say, hey, if this is what you gave me,
that's correct.
And that's really what the base case is.
It's solving the simple problem, such
that the entire recursion becomes simple.
All right, next base case.
If a equals null, or b equals null, right?
If just one of them is null, we've now
hit a point where hey, you are no longer
equal because one of you are null and
the other one's hexadecimal 45.
That's completely incorrect,
therefore, return false.
Awesome, and there's one more base case.
What's the last base case?
>> Just one is true or both are true, no.
>> a.value equals b.value.
>> Bill, that's right.
If a.value does not equal b.value,
I know you said it differently but
you got the same answer,
then it's not the same.
Value-wise, we are not the same.
We are false in that moment of time.
So now comes the last part,
which is always the trickiest part.
Which is, how do we do this for
the entire tree now?
Well, the easiest way to do that,
of course,
is we are gonna return compare
with a.left and b.left.
We don't need to look at what they're.
We don't need to check if they're nulls or
anything,
that's what our base cases are for.
And compare a.right,
oopsies, with b.right.
So long as we only hit the return true,
it will keep bubbling back up as true,
all the way to that point.
Cuz remember, if it's true at this point,
and my left subtree and
my right subtree are true also,
then that part of the tree is true.
All right, so let's extend this
out just a little bit, right?
So I'm gonna do 7 and 9,
and let's do 7 and 9, and
then let's do one more,
that's like say 14.
Okay, so we go through here.
And value, or yeah, the value is equal.
So right now, we're not sure
if we are true or false yet.
We just know that we are passing
all of our base cases and
we need it to check the rest.
So we're gonna go down to this
subtree right here, right?
This is just a subtree.
Any node is in itself a tree.
If you think about it, because it is
a point in which has children, and so
any point of your tree
is just another tree.
That's what makes this so useful.
So we're right here,
we check this subtree.
Just by visual inspection, you can see
they're both the same by shape and
by value.
So this entire subtree returns true,
returns true,
which this thing, ampersand,
checks each one of these.
By the way,
did you see that first tri ampersand draw?
Very, very hard to do.
So long as these both return true,
we should be good to go, right?
Right, so
we do the same thing on this side.
We need to see, is this subtree correct?
Which ultimately leads,
is this subtree the same as the other one?
So when we look at this,
we are going to return false and
true if we were to execute them both.
And if we try to ampersand this thing,
man, we can't ampersand it, right?
We cannot logically add those two,
what is it?
Boolean, yeah,
logically combine those two together.
It becomes false.
So therefore, this is false,
though this is true.
And again,
we apply the same recursive technique.
Are those two together?
We multiply true with false,
it becomes false.
It's not good, therefore,
the whole thing is false because
one subtree is false within it.
So that's kind of working back up logic
of just combining those trues and falses.
And you can see that right here.
So each spot combine our left
subtree with our right subtree.
Long as they're both true,
we're true also.
And that makes sense because that means,
this case was hit all the way to the end,
and that makes sense.
That's the only base case that can ever
be hit is we just have to keep on hitting
nulls, and that's it.
Cuz the moment we hit something like this,
that whole subtree becomes invalid.
Does that make sense?
Which eventually makes
the entire tree invalid.
Beautiful, awesome.
All right, is there any questions now that
I've potentially shoddily explained it?
I tried the hardest I can, very hard,
to kinda draw out recursion.
It's a topic that's best left to the
imagination, Or a really large whiteboard.
I think a really large
whiteboard could have done it.
And you're probably saying, well, you
have a really large editor technically.
I could have shifted around, but
it's just hard, it's just hard.
All right, why do we have
both of these if statements?
Why do we first check to see
if they're both null and
then check to see if one of them is null?
So the first check is to check,
have we made it to a point in both
subtrees in which we both
cannot recurse any further?
That's that first check,
are we both going to a null node together?
That means structurally,
we are the exact same,
cuz we both arrived to a null together.
What this one says is that we're
structurally not the same.
Because if one of us is null and
the other one is a node,
we have traversed to the same point and
have different structure.
Hopefully that makes sense?
In JavaScript, yes, we could have used
the question mark operator just to
see if the two values are equal.
We would have been able
to condense this step.
But I wanted to make it really obvious
that this is a structural check, right?
This is a structural check.
This is a value check, right?
I wanted to kind of break those out
explicitly because they are truly
different.
And yes, as I said before, for those that
don't understand what I was trying to say,
if we just simply deleted that out,
that check technically works out for
both value and structural
checking at the exact same time.
Awesome, you guys are great.
Great, great question.
I think that may have made
a better explanation.
Okay, let's keep on going.
I'm excited, you're excited,
we're all excited.
So now we're gonna go to a specific
version of a binary tree
called a binary search tree.
It's just classic,
it's just absolutely classic.
One of the books I recommended yesterday,
which I'll bring those up for
a quick second.
Go right to here.
I'm using a mouse,
please don't laugh at me.
Don't laugh at me.
This one right here, the second one.
This one just jumps right
into binary search trees.
I don't believe it even pitstops
on trees really at all.
But you can check that one out.
It has a great explanation
of a binary search tree.
Also, plenty of good YouTube
content on this as well.
I just wanted to throw that out there.